---
layout: page
title: Base Rules
permalink: /base-rules/
---

##### _Last updated January 2026._

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Characters</b></summary>
There are three Characteristics:
* **Vigor**: strength, endurance, climbing.
  - A Vigor of 15+ gives +1 ATK.
* **Agility**: jumping, balance, contorsion, horse riding; silent movement.
  - An Agility of 15+ gives a +1 to Capture Saves.
* **Finesse**: tinkering (locks, traps), bushcraft (knots, basic tool and shelter making), hunting and tracking; healing; theft; herbs.
  - A Finesse of 15+ gives a +1 to Death Saves.

They are generated by rolling 3d6. 
Choose two sub-traits of your Characteristics as Skills (e.g. Healing and Strength).
Vigor:
* Strength
* Endurance
* Climbing
Agility:
* Jumping
* Balance, horse riding
* Silent movement
Finesse:
* Tinkering traps and locks
* Bushcraft
* Hunting (and tracking)
* Healing
* Theft
* Herbs

There are three Saves:
* **Capture**: 6-Dead Weight. Used against area effects, paralysis, sleep, petrification, blindness, being tied up (trick the one who binds you into believing he has the right constraint and untie yourself later), telekinesis, metamorphosis, mutations, traps, wands, rays. 
* **Death**: 5, or 7 against injuries if you wear a helmet. Used against lethal injuries, disease, poison.
* **Witchcraft**: 2 + ritual warding (if any, and only temporary). Used against spells who bypass the other saves, curses and mind-altering effects. Base ward is 0. Make a sacrifice and smear blood from it on yourself to gain +1 to +4 warding according to size and rarity of the sacrifice, until the next sunrise.

There are three Attributes:
* **Hit Points (HP)**: how many damage you can take before you die or lose bits of yourself.
* **Attacks (ATK)**: how many attacks you have per round.
* **Mana**: the number of spells you can cast and their power.

A character starts at Level 1 with 2 HP, 1 attack, and 0 Mana.

There are three starting Traits. Choose one:
* **Berserker**. Invoke holy furor to gain +1 ATK per round until end of fight. You automatically pass death saves from injuries while in this state (mutilations still apply). You can’t do something else than trying to kill all enemies until it’s done. Save against Capture after 10 minutes or lose this ability for the day.
* **Silent**. While stealthy, you don't risk noise -even when trying to kill someone, walking on dry leaves or similar activity.
* **Malefica(r)**. Each time you gain a level, gain 1 random spell. You start the game with 1 HP instead of 2, but you also have 1 Mana and two random spells.
</details>

---

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Progress</b></summary>
* For each silver worth of treasure you bring back home, gain 1 xp. Spend 100*your level xp to advance to the next level.
* Make a public, legendary boast. If you fulfill it, you advance to the next level without spending xp. If you fail, you are released from it and can declare another. If you shirk your boast, you can never boast again. You cannot have more than one boast pending at a time.

Each time you gain a level, choose one:
* +1 HP
* +1 ATK
* +1 Mana

To improve your Characteristics, see Downtime.

</details>

---

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Resolution</b></summary>
Always round down unless specified otherwise.

### X-in-6 chance
Roll a d6, if you roll the number or lower it happens. 
If the Referee is unsure and has no random table for it, they decide how many chances out of 6 there are that the thing will happen.  2-in-6 is a good chance for most things. 

## Tests
If discussion does not offer an obvious resolution, you may roll a d12. You must roll 4 or less to succeed. If the suitable characteristic is at least 13, you succeed on 5 or less. If it is at least 16, you succeed on 6 or less. I you have the relevant skill, add 2 to your chances of success.

Easy or extreme actions pass or fail automatically. Advantages either change the stakes in your favor or grant you automatic success.
### Stakes
The players are free to discuss and plan any course of action, with the Referee clarifying feasibility and likely consequences of failure. The stakes determine the difficulty, whether or not you can complete the action on a failure, the severity of the cost and what you can gain out of a success.
### Group action
When everyone joins the same action and it needs a test, everyone rolls. If there is more success than failures, everyone succeeds. Otherwise, everyone fails. All participants are subject to the stakes.
### Opposed action
Base 6-in-12, modified by the difference of skill.
### Secret & just-in-time roll
If the knowledge of the outcome impacts the situation, the Referee might secretly roll for a character, or delay the roll until the last moment. 
## Saves
Against specific threats, the Referee might call for you to make a save.  
Each save rates the chances of success on 1d12 to avoid the threat.  
There are two types of threat.
* Those that inflict damage: Roll once for each damage, each success prevents one damage.
* Those that have a binary effect, suffered entirely on a failure or not at all on a success: Roll once.
When in doubt between two saves, use the one most advantageous to the character.

</details>

---
